Detective Recapped here. Today, I'm going
to explain a Crime-Mystery film called ‘Double
Jeopardy’. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and
take care.
Libby Parsons is a mother who loves nothing
more than spending time with her four-year-old
son, Matty. They like to do things together,
including fishing. Libby teaches her son how
to use a fishing rod, and as she does, she
points to a boat across the sea, the Morning
Star. She tells him that it's the prettiest
boat on the island. Libby also adds that she'll
someday teach Matty how to sail. According
to Libby, sailing is better than fishing.
She tells Matty that she doesn't want him
to grow up because he'll marry some girl,
and no one will sail with Libby anymore.
At their residence, Nick throws a party that
most of his friends and co-workers attend.
Two of his colleagues try to talk to him about
work, specifically about Seattle, but he avoids
them as he clearly doesn’t want to talk.
Meanwhile, Libby's best friend, Angela, hands
Matty over to her and Libby asks if she's
been carrying Matty around the whole time.
Angela says yes to this, and Libby tells her
that they’re never marrying her off.
As the party continues, Nick sees some of
his guests admiring one of his paintings.
He overhears their conversation as a guy explains
to his lady friend that one of the paintings
is made by Picasso. Ever the art enthusiast,
Nick corrects the man, explaining that the
painting is actually made by a German artist
named Wassily Kandinsky. After that, Nick
goes outside to where most of his guests are
to make a speech. He thanks everyone for coming,
announcing that the party's purpose is to
raise money for the Small Frye School. Angela
remarks that Nick is insufferable, and Libby
agrees with her.
After the party, Libby, Nick, and Angela are
left at home, and Nick talks about breaking
some news to Libby. When Libby asks what's
going on, Nick tells her to close her eyes.
The two playfully dance around, and when Angela
asks Libby what her favorite thing is, Nick
finally tells her to open her eyes. Libby
does as she's said, and the first thing she
sees is the Morning Star, smoothly sailing
across the waters. According to Nick, the
boat's owner is thinking of selling it and
has agreed to lend it to them for the weekend.
Nick adds that if Libby likes it, then he
will buy the boat for her. Libby can't believe
what she's hearing, and she tells Nick that
they can't afford the boat.
Nonetheless, Nick confidently asks Libby if
money has ever been an issue for them, making
Libby chuckle. Angela offers to take care
of Matty since Libby is worried about him,
promising that they will have a great time.
Still trying to wrap her head around Nick's
plan, Libby teases her husband that he hates
to sail. Nick only smiles at her, saying that
he can learn.
As planned, Nick and Libby take out the boat
with Libby navigating it. When Nick comes
out of the boat's compartment, he is surprised
that he can't see the land. When Libby asks
where he wants to go, Nick replies that he
wants to go to bed so they spend the night
in each other's arms. While in bed, Libby
suggests to Nick that they should go away
more often and Nick agrees before tenderly
kissing her. A few moments have passed, and
Libby must have fallen asleep before waking
to a loud, banging sound. Wondering why her
husband isn't in bed, Libby calls out to Nick.
Just as she does, Libby notices that her clothes
and hands are all covered with blood.
Frightened, Libby continues calling Nick,
who’s still nowhere to be found. When Libby
leaves their room, she sees blood painting
the walls, the floor, and even the stairs
leading to the upper deck. She spots some
bloody footprints which end by the rails.
If that were Nick’s blood, he might very
well have gone overboard. With a whimper,
Libby continues to search for her husband.
Eventually, she stumbles upon a knife on the
floor. She picks it up and as if on cue, the
Coast Guard patrol arrives only to be greeted
by the sight of a confused woman on deck with
a bloody knife in her hands.
The search for Nick begins, and the local
media starts to cover their story. Libby's
cop friend, Cutter, coordinates with the authorities
regarding Nick's case. According to him, the
life preservers are still on board. Cutter
also adds that the rescuers have already tracked
the wind and currents but they still haven’t
found any signs of Nick. He adds that the
water temperature that night was too cold,
implying that her husband couldn't have survived.
Suddenly, Libby starts hyperventilating and
Cutter holds onto her, trying to calm her
down and make sure she's all right.
One day, as Libby watches her son play by
the shore, Cutter and his fellow policemen
show up. Libby’s lawyer friend Bobby is
also with them and he informs Libby that an
inquest was held that morning. Nick has been
officially declared dead. It pains Bobby to
tell her this but while Nick was considered
to have a wrongful death, the authorities
have formally charged her with his murder.
Before she can respond, Bobby advises her
to withhold from making any statements to
the sheriff. Cutter apologises to Libby before
taking out the handcuffs. Libby firmly tells
him not to put them on her in front of Matty.
Libby is taken to jail, and as she waits,
Bobby arrives to tell her that they've been
denied bail. He asks Libby if Angela can take
care of Matty, and Libby only responds by
nodding. Bobby is preparing to tell Libby
what they can do about her case, but Libby
cuts him off. She starts telling him about
what could have happened that night. Libby
remembers having some wine before falling
asleep. She says that Nick might have been
trying to cut a snagged line as the knife
was on deck. Libby tearfully adds that the
boat might have pitched and he ended up cutting
himself. She proposes that he must have tried
going downstairs to wake her up. When Libby
looks at Bobby, his face is unreadable. He
holds her hand, assuring her that everything
will be all right.
Returning to what they're supposed to discuss,
Bobby brings up that Nick and Libby bought
life insurance policies four months ago, to
which she is the beneficiary. Libby curtly
replies that she's Nick's wife, so Bobby asks
her if she knows that the policy is worth
two million dollars. Libby tells Bobby that
Nick wanted to make sure that his wife and
son would be okay in the event that something
happened to him. Bobby is quick to answer
that the jury might see this as a motive to
kill Nick. Libby asks him if people are saying
that she killed Nick for money, and Bobby
answers that nobody's saying that. Libby starts
to get hysterical, making Bobby lightly raise
his voice.
Finally, he admits that two of Nick's investors
were suing him for embezzlement. He says that
Seattle has issued a lien on all of Nick's
real estate properties and her possessions.
This means that Nick's death will make his
problems disappear behind a corporate shield,
which will leave Libby with two million dollars.
In court, the prosecution asks the officer
assigned to Nick's case about the boat's marine
band radio when they inspected it. He says
that the handset cord was cut, and that they
saw Libby holding a knife as they approached
the Morning Star. After the officer's statement,
the prosecution shows the court the bloody
knife from the scene and plays a recording
of Nick's voice. Based on the recording, Nick
was able to call for help. When the operator
asked what his emergency was, he said that
he'd been stabbed and that he was bleeding.
The operator asked for his location, but Nick
wasn't sure, so he just estimated where they
were before he started bawling.
After playing the recording, Prosecutor Halliwell
cross-examines Libby, trying to discredit
what she previously said that somebody must
have come aboard their boat. The prosecutor
mocks Libby by saying that aliens must have
murdered her husband but then takes it back.
Aliens weren't the beneficiary of Nick's life
insurance policy. Bobby, tries to object,
but the judge overrules this. Prosecutor Halliwell
continues her assault on Libby, saying that
Libby must've been sleepwalking when she stabbed
Nick. Finding it hard to contain her emotions,
Libby breaks down, insisting that she didn't
kill her husband and pleading to the jury
to believe her.
After losing the case, Bobby apologises to
Libby, but Libby tells him that it's not his
fault. Once he leaves, Libby turns to Angela,
and asks her to adopt Matty. She refuses,
saying she can't do that to Libby, but Libby
is adamant about it. Libby barely survived
her parents’ house so there’s no way she’ll
put her son there. Libby also adds that Matty
won’t be a problem because Nick’s life
insurance will be transferred to him. After
some convincing, Angela finally agrees and
Libby thanks her best friend profusely. Libby
pulls her son to her lap and tells him that
he’ll be staying with Angela for a while.
She does her best to keep herself from crying
in front of Matty and promises him that once
everything is over, they’ll be together
again.
In prison, Libby meets two inmates who bet
that Libby won't last long and that she might
even kill herself. Libby tells them to stay
away from her, but they say that they heard
about what she did to her husband and that
he probably deserved it. Libby tries to adjust
to her new life, and the frequent visits from
Matty and Angela are the main thing that keeps
her going. Eventually, Matty and Angela stop
visiting, and no matter how much Libby calls
her, she gets no answer. One day, the two
inmates from before notice that she's alone
and in deep thought, so they approach her,
telling her that they know she's looking for
her friend and son.
Libby says that they disappeared, but one
of them insists that she can figure out how
to find them if she just used her head. By
posing as Angela and calling Matty's school,
Libby is finally able to track down where
Angela is, which is in San Francisco. Libby
immediately calls the number and when Angela
answers, she immediately asks if Matty's okay.
Angela stammers, saying that everything is
fine, but Libby continues questioning her,
asking her what they're doing in San Francisco
and why they suddenly disappeared. Trying
to come up with an excuse, Angela says that
she's just about to call Libby and that they're
planning to see her the following week. Tired
of Angela's excuses, Libby demands to talk
to Matty, and while they talk, Libby hears
Matty call his father. The line suddenly goes
dead, and Libby tries calling them again to
no avail.
One day, one of Libby's new friends, Margaret,
tells her to forget about reopening her case.
She says they take years and most of them
are unsuccessful. Being a former lawyer, Margaret
advises her to do her time instead, then asks
if Libby has ever heard about Double Jeopardy.
When Libby says no, Margaret explains that
the Double Jeopardy rule provides that no
person may be tried for the same crime twice.
Since the state has already convicted Libby
of killing her husband, it means they can't
convict her of it a second time. It also means
that once Libby gets out, she can track Nick
down and kill him.
Learning about the Double Jeopardy clause,
Libby spends most of her free time in prison,
training and getting strong. After six years,
Libby is paroled due to her good behavior,
but she has to live in a halfway house under
parole officer Travis Lehman's supervision.
In there, Lehman reminds Libby that the state
has only granted her conditional parole, meaning
that for the next three years, she needs to
follow all the facility’s rules. He gives
her a social security card for employment
then tells her that she's not allowed to carry
a weapon of any kind. After informing her
what time the curfew is, Lehman gives Libby
his number, telling her not to lose it. Lastly,
Lehman reminds Libby that violating any of
the rules might result in her imprisonment
again.
With the help of some random guy in a library,
Libby tries searching for Angela's new address
on the internet. Unfortunately, there are
more than a thousand Angela Greens in the
search results, making her impossible to find.
One day, a fight breaks between one of the
parolees and Lehman in the house. After it
was resolved, the other parolees get to talking.
That's when Libby finds out that Lehman used
to be a law professor who got in an accident
due to intoxication. His wife and child have
also left him.
In another attempt to find Angela, Libby talks
to Rebecca, Matty's former headmistress. Libby
tells her that she's her only hope, but Rebecca
says that she can't help Libby. She also adds
that Matty hasn't seen her in six years, and
if she suddenly comes back into her son's
life, she’ll just cause him more pain. No
matter how hard Libby pleads with Rebecca,
the headmistress remains unmoved. That night,
Libby violates her curfew and breaks into
Matty's old school to get Angela's contact
information. Libby manages to get Angela's
records, but the cops catch her. Lehman eventually
picks her up. As he delivers Libby back to
prison aboard a car ferry, he handcuffs her
to the car's handle to get coffee. Thinking
she can escape, Libby drives the vehicle back
and forth, repeatedly hitting a pipe until
she breaks the handle. Lehman finally sees
what she's doing, but when he gets in the
car, it falls off the ferry. Lehman is still
able to save Libby, but during the process,
she gets a hold of his gun and hits him in
the head before finally escaping. Libby then
visits her mother, who gives her some cash
and even lends Libby her truck.
At a car dealership, Libby poses as Angela
again and uses her social security number
to find out where Angela lives. Lehman manages
to track where Libby is going by asking one
of his parolees to do a search on Angela Green.
Libby drives to Colorado and there she discovers
from a neighbour that Angela, who's known
there as Angela Ryder, has died in an explosion
four years ago. Libby asks the neighbor about
Matty and the neighbor says that Matty and
Simon, which is presumably Nick's new identity,
weren't there when it happened. Meanwhile,
Lehman is only a few steps behind Libby, and
he's able to interview the same person Libby
has asked about Angela.
After talking to Angela's neighbor, Libby
searches the internet again for news about
Angela's death. In the picture, she sees a
painting of Kandinsky that Nick owns. By going
to an art gallery, Libby's able to trace the
painting to New Orleans. She finds out that
Nick is running a small luxury hotel there
under his new name, Jonathan Deveraux. Lehman
has only missed her by a few minutes, so he
asks the art curator what Libby was looking
for in the gallery.
Libby looks for the hotel Nick is running,
asks for Jonathan Deveraux, then finds out
that he will be at the Annual Bachelor's Auction.
At the hotel, Libby hears one of the guests'
personal information and uses that to buy
a dress, saying she'll charge it to her room.
Lehman, who is also in New Orleans now, coordinates
with the police to find Libby, saying that
she might kill someone.
At the event, Libby joins the bidding when
it's Nick's turn to be auctioned and she eventually
wins. When she comes forward to claim her
prize, Nick is surprised to see her. She humiliates
him in front of everyone by asking for a kiss,
only to turn away as soon as he’s about
to give her one. As they walk away, Libby
doesn't beat around the bush and threatens
to destroy Nick's life if he doesn't give
her Matty.
Nick makes the excuse of protecting her and
Matty by getting the life insurance since
they were going under. He adds that he never
believed that Libby was going to be convicted
anyway. Nick tries to tell her that his relationship
with Angela happened later and that it turned
out to be a complete nightmare, but Libby
doesn't believe him. She even asks if that's
why Nick killed her but he insists that it’s
an accident. Libby is having none of it and
she once again demands that he give her Matty.
After a heated discussion, Libby sees Lehman
approaching and tells Nick that she'll call
him the following day. Lehman talks to Nick,
who he thinks is named John Deveraux, and
asks if he has seen Libby. Lehman tells him
that she believes him to be her husband, but
Nick pretends to be clueless. Lehman also
informs him that Libby is looking for him,
so Nick thanks him for his concern, adding
that he'll contact their security.
At a bar, one man recognizes Libby from the
flyers that the cops have been passing around.
Instead of turning her in, he advises her
to leave immediately and even gives her an
umbrella. With the cops surrounding the area,
Libby tries to escape again by carefully blending
with the crowd. Luckily, she's able to hide,
and the cops just let it go. The following
morning, Lehman meets up with Nick to inform
him that Libby got away.
Spotting the paintings on the wall, Lehman
asks Nick if his kids painted them, but Nick
says they're made by a great artist named
Kandinsky. After answering the officer's question,
Nick adds that he has a feeling that Lehman
already knew that. While they're talking,
Libby calls and tells Nick to bring Matty
to Lafayette cemetery number three. However,
Nick hires a boy to pretend to be Matty to
lure Libby into a mausoleum.
In there, Nick attacks her and locks her inside
a coffin. Back at the police station, Lehman
uses their system to search for Jonathan Deveraux
nothing came up. He then requests the Washington
State DMV to fax him the driver's license
photograph of Nicholas Parsons.
Back at the mausoleum, Libby escapes by using
Lehman's gun to shoot the coffin's hinges.
Upon getting the driver's license, Lehman
sees that the man in the photograph is a different
man from Libby's husband. Feeling that Libby
might go to see Nick, Lehman beats her to
the hotel and stops her, making Libby break
down.
Lehman meets up with Nick again and informs
him that after asking the Washington State
DMV for Nicholas Parson's driver's license
photograph, six different men with that name
came up. One of them is him, Jonathan Deveraux.
Lehman pretends to ask Nick for a million
dollars as hush money, but Nick says he can
only give him a hundred thousand at the moment
before promising that he can provide the rest
tomorrow.
When Lehman says that Libby is still going
to be a problem, Nick hints that he's already
killed her. At that moment, Libby enters the
room with a gun in hand. Nick warns her that
if she shoots him, she'll get the gas chamber.
Libby confidently replies that due to the
double jeopardy clause, she won't be convicted
of killing him now since she was already convicted
of that before. Libby asks Nick where Matty
is, and as soon as Nick tells her, she shoots
the Kandinsky painting behind him. Lehman
then reveals that he's been recording their
conversation and that he will be charged with
Libby's supposed murder.
As Lehman and Libby are leaving, Nick shoots
them, hitting Lehman in the shoulder. Though
he’s injured, Lehman manages to tackle Nick,
but Nick still gets the upper hand. As Nick
stands and prepares to kill Lehman, Libby
shoots him twice, finally killing him. Libby
tells Lehman that she's leaving, but Lehman
convinces her to go back with him to Seattle,
where he will demand a full pardon for her.
At last, Libby goes to Matty's new school,
and even though he's aged six years, Matty
immediately recognizes his mother.